== README


This is the Resize photos – SkyHub challenge from Vitor Matta

This application was created to:
* Consume a webservice endpoint (http://54.152.221.29/images.json) that returns a JSON of photos. There are 10 photos.
* Generate three different formats for each photo. The dimensions are: small (320x240), medium (384x288) and large (640x480).
* Expose a webservice endpoint that lists (in JSON format) all the ten photos with their respective formats, providing their URLs.
* Show every image with its many ormats (it was a plus)

This project was created using ruby on rails due to the facilities and libraries to deal with images to resize with no pain.
It uses:
* mongodb and paperclip gem to deal with images.
* Rspec and factory girl to make the tests.
* Rest-client to deal with http requests
* Sucker punch to act as asynchronous processing library. I choose sucker punch because it is easy to integrate and does not require many configurations when deployed.
* To interact with mongodb, mongoid was used.
* To convert the images, ImageMagick must be installed on your system.

When the application is started, it enqueues a job with sucker punch to download and convert the images. Thi solution was
used to increase the user experience when listing the images.

=== System dependencies
  * mongodb (v2.6.12 was used in a fedora 24 box). Ensure mongodb is installed and running on your system
  * ImageMagick is very inportant to use mongoid-paperclip and must be installed on your system before proceed. Ensure ImageMagick is installed on your system and that '''convert''' command is available after the installation


=== Configuration
 * Run *bundle install* to install the gems
 * Run *rspec* to perform the tests
 * Run *rails s* to start the system in development mode


=== Usage
 * List (in JSON format) all the ten photos with their respective formats, providing their URLs

 ```
 curl -X GET   http://localhost:3000/   -H 'cache-control: no-cache'
 ```

 Another way to use this feature is to point http://localhost:3000 in your browser

 * Show every image in small, medium, large and original format
 Access http://localhost:3000/images/list in your browser and you will see all 10 images in the available formats.


=== Deployment instructions
* Deployment should be done with capistrano. The deployment configuration was not made. I let it to the user so it can configure your servers, branches etc.
* The user will need to configure config/deploy/production.rb, config/deploy/staging.rb and config/deploy.rb before use *cap deploy*

